[Commercial]: National Bank. First always.
[Music.]
[Tom Turbiville]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: The proud story of the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion is told in the words written by Cal Boykin of College Station, a historian of the 814th.
[Tom Turbiville]: Cal Boykin was a gunner atop his M8 armored car on recon duty in World War II's European campaign, patrolling the French roads behind Normandy through Belgium and Holland onto Germany.
[Tom Turbiville]: It is our honor to welcome Cal Boykin Jr.
[Tom Turbiville]: of College Station to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: Cal, it is an honor to have you here, your A&M class of 1946.
[Calvin Boykin]: 1946.
[Tom Turbiville]: You've lived here a long time.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, you were born in Roswell, New Mexico in 1924.
[Calvin Boykin]: 1924, and that was 12 years after New Mexico became a state.
[Calvin Boykin]: Uh-huh.
[Calvin Boykin]: And quite a number of years before the ET landed in Roswell.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were somewhere in between those two.
[Calvin Boykin]: In there, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You weren't in New Mexico long, actually.
[Tom Turbiville]: You grew up in Big Spring, and it was that time when you were a youth and you were playing sports in high school that you decided that the war had broken out, and you decided that you needed some military training, and that's where Texas A&M came into it.
[Tom Turbiville]: Sort of talk about your youth.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, I had never been to A&M.
[Calvin Boykin]: I had some friends.
[Calvin Boykin]: Of course, I lived on the farm at Rochelle with my grandmother for a while, and I knew some graduates or seniors with their boots and all, and I was anxious to get to A&M for that reason, in addition to being able to be ready to go into service when I was called.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, you grew up in Rochelle, which is near Brady, which is where Earl Rudder was a coach for a while, right?
[Calvin Boykin]: Yes, he was coaching high school football.
[Calvin Boykin]: I was playing on the grammar school.
[Calvin Boykin]: Rochelle team.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You went back to Big Spring, 16 years old.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's when you decided you want the military training, and you came to A&M in 1942.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about A&M in the early 40s as the United States was just getting into the war.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, it was a busy place.
[Calvin Boykin]: I don't remember.
[Calvin Boykin]: There were over 7,000 students, maybe close to 8,000.
[Calvin Boykin]: And they were getting ready to go.
[Calvin Boykin]: And what happened?
[Calvin Boykin]: The draft age was lowered to 18.
[Calvin Boykin]: I believe it was November of 42.
[Calvin Boykin]: See, I started in June of 42 on that tri-semester speeded up program.
[Calvin Boykin]: And so many decided they'd go that route, enlist in the Enlisted Reserve Corps.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, I decided not to do anything.
[Calvin Boykin]: I went home.
[Calvin Boykin]: check with my draft board and the young blonde there said, you volunteer and you get your Joyce branches service.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I said, well, sure, Air Corps.
[Calvin Boykin]: So I signed up and two weeks later I was gone.
[Tom Turbiville]: And they threw you a curve though a little bit, right?
[Tom Turbiville]: Pardon?
[Tom Turbiville]: They threw you a curve ball on there, didn't they?
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah, they did.
[Calvin Boykin]: But she had, I guess she had the right information, but they turned it on her.
[Calvin Boykin]: But I was inducted in Lubbock and on up to Fort Sill.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: As soon as I arrived, I had a V, volunteer for the draft next to my number, and the first sergeant said, forget it, we're going to put you where we want you.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I'll give credit to the placement officer who tried to get me out of the infantry because I had farm experience and that was about it, sheep and goats and chopping cotton.
[Calvin Boykin]: Anyway, I finally said, well, I had Washington Green's cars at the Crawford Hotel at Big Spring, which my father managed.
[Calvin Boykin]: And so right away, tank destroyers.
[Calvin Boykin]: But at the same time, they found out I could type courtesy of high school, Big Spring.
[Calvin Boykin]: And so I was typing insurance forms there at Fort Seal for quite a while, and I thought that was going to be my permanent assignment.
[Calvin Boykin]: But all of a sudden, I moved to
[Calvin Boykin]: to Camp Hood.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Which was what Fort Hood was called before.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's right.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you were in the 814th.
[Tom Turbiville]: After I left Hood.
[Calvin Boykin]: I was at Hood quite a long time.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it tank destroyer replacement training center.
[Calvin Boykin]: Now, General A.D.
[Calvin Boykin]: Bruce, class of 16, A&M, is the one who established that and is known as the father of Fort Hood.
[Tom Turbiville]: I see.
[Calvin Boykin]: So anyway, I left there.
[Calvin Boykin]: had joined the 814th on maneuvers in Louisiana.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, at Fort Polk.
[Calvin Boykin]: At Fort Polk.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right, right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it was Camp Polk at that time.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Camp Polk, that's really where the 814th was first formed.
[Tom Turbiville]: It was formed there in 1942.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it had the Indiana National Guard as cadre, maybe some from Kentucky, I don't remember.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then it was activated in Fort Polk or Camp Polk, as you said, but then it moved its headquarters to Camp Bowie, Texas.
[Calvin Boykin]: It was there at Bowie because Camp Hood was so crowded, they didn't have room.
[Calvin Boykin]: So they trained at Bowie for a little while at Brownwood and then moved on to Hood.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: In March of 43, I believe is when it- Well, that was before they went on maneuvers.
[Calvin Boykin]: I see.
[Calvin Boykin]: They went back to Polk, Leesville and all that area, cut over timberland,
[Calvin Boykin]: Cold winter.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about tank destroyers and the tanks, because I know that obviously the vehicles themselves are something that means a lot to you.
[Tom Turbiville]: You have several books.
[Tom Turbiville]: You have written your own history of the 814th.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about the different kind of tanks that there were.
[Tom Turbiville]: It was amazing.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you were in an M8 armored vehicle.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right, right.
[Calvin Boykin]: But the tank destroyers, this was something envisioned by General Marshall.
[Calvin Boykin]: chief of staff, and it was developed by General McNair and implemented by General A.D.
[Calvin Boykin]: Bruce, Major General A.D.
[Calvin Boykin]: Bruce, class of A&M 16.
[Calvin Boykin]: I don't forget.
[Calvin Boykin]: And so we went there, but he had a big hand in designing
[Calvin Boykin]: the tank destroyer.
[Calvin Boykin]: It started out with a three-quarter ton truck with a 37 millimeter mounted on the top with a thin gun shield.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, that was useless, but anyway, they could use it in training.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then the M3
[Calvin Boykin]: which was a half-track with a 75-millimeter gun.
[Calvin Boykin]: A half-track personnel carrier with a 75-millimeter gun, which was a step up, I'd say.
[Calvin Boykin]: Then, finally, they came with the M10, which was on a medium tank chassis like the Sherman, and a little bit of different turret to it, and it mounted a three-inch gun with 76-millimeter, and a little more powerful gun, which could do the job.
[Calvin Boykin]: Now General Bruce wasn't too happy with that one.
[Calvin Boykin]: He wanted the M18, which was
[Calvin Boykin]: a lower, lighter in weight, had a 76-millimeter gun, too.
[Calvin Boykin]: But anyway, they produced both of those.
[Calvin Boykin]: But the M10 was the first real tank destroyer.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then the armored car, the M8.
[Calvin Boykin]: And the armored car, we used that little M6 with the 37-millimeter gun and the gun seal on the three-quarter-ton truck in training.
[Calvin Boykin]: When we got to England, we drew our M8s, the first I'd even seen.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it's a 55 mile an hour, six wheel rubber tires going, mounting a 37 millimeter gun with a coaxially mounted 30 caliber machine gun.
[Calvin Boykin]: And some had a ring mount with a 50 caliber.
[Calvin Boykin]: My thought was you'd never get out of that thing if you got hit because you had to get over that ring.
[Calvin Boykin]: So I wasn't too unhappy about not having a 50 caliber.
[Tom Turbiville]: We're going to see a photograph a little bit later on of the M8, and it's not what people normally think of as a tank when they look at the movies with the tanks that run over piles of things and all that.
[Tom Turbiville]: These tires look like regular semi-tires, like six rubber tires, and that was for speed and maneuverability, right?
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah, right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And they're maneuvering, and we were classified really as, well, see the tank destroyer battalion had three gun companies, 36 tank destroyers.
[Calvin Boykin]: And they had a reconnaissance company, of course, headquarters.
[Calvin Boykin]: But the reconnaissance had three recon platoons and a pioneer, kind of an engineer, mine sweeper, digging around and whatnot type of a platoon.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, you talk about the M8.
[Tom Turbiville]: You didn't really get exposed to that weapon until you were actually in England, as I understand.
[Tom Turbiville]: But when you were there, you were a gunner on this M8 armored car with a 37-millimeter gun.
[Tom Turbiville]: But let's get you over to England, from Halifax to England, aboard a reconstructed luxury liner, right, called the Eau de France.
[Calvin Boykin]: That's right, the Eau de France, which the British had taken over.
[Calvin Boykin]: Our crew was a British crew of a few Canadians.
[Calvin Boykin]: And there were 15,000, as I heard, understood, troops aboard that ship when we left on Valentine's Day of February of 44.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it took us seven days.
[Calvin Boykin]: Zigzagging, I suppose.
[Calvin Boykin]: Of course, rumors about it.
[Calvin Boykin]: We'd been followed with all these sorts of things.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: It was crewed by the British.
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: And the food was horrible.
[Calvin Boykin]: Oh, you bet.
[Calvin Boykin]: Had native beans for breakfast and kidneys and
[Calvin Boykin]: I don't know what a liver probably.
[Tom Turbiville]: As a matter of fact, Cal Boykin wrote this book, The History of the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion, and I want to read what you wrote about the food.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'll try to be sensitive as I can on this.
[Tom Turbiville]: You said that Warren Bressler of Wakefield, Nebraska, remembers standing in line with his mess kit and a coffee cup ready for breakfast.
[Tom Turbiville]: The soldier in front of me held out his mess kit to receive his oatmeal and liver breakfast.
[Tom Turbiville]: The liver was actually cooked in the oatmeal.
[Tom Turbiville]: When the oatmeal hit the mess kit, it had a dead mouse in it.
[Tom Turbiville]: The cook picked the mouse out of the oatmeal and liver by the tail,
[Tom Turbiville]: threw it on the floor and said to the GI, you don't have to eat that.
[Tom Turbiville]: He went on to say that he spent $1.75 of the money that he'd won playing poker to go out and buy a corned beef hash sandwich.
[Calvin Boykin]: That was a big operation we had to go and buy those sandwiches.
[Calvin Boykin]: Until they cut that off.
[Tom Turbiville]: And he took his hard earned poker money to go buy that sandwich rather than eat that oatmeal and liver.
[Tom Turbiville]: I can't say that I blame him at all.
[Calvin Boykin]: No, that's right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You got to England.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about after you got to England and what you thought that you were preparing for as far as the invasion of Normandy and sort of take us through that time.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, we, of course, landed Greenock, Scotland, immediately transported down near Birmingham.
[Calvin Boykin]: We got off at Stratford-on-Avon, although I wasn't aware that was Shakespeare's place.
[Calvin Boykin]: But anyway, we ended up at Packington Park, which is an estate of Lord Packington.
[Calvin Boykin]: And things went well there.
[Calvin Boykin]: We had our equipment.
[Calvin Boykin]: All of our tank destroyers and our armored cars and trucks and Jeeps and all that.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we did a little maneuvering around occasionally, but not too much.
[Calvin Boykin]: Because we could do so much damage, we tore up the gate to the Fagenden Park.
[Calvin Boykin]: So we had, with an M10, we had to go and park all of those way off somewhere, which meant we had to go guard it at night.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I spent a lot of time on guard there at night.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You thought at the time that maybe your group was going to be part of the invasion itself, but it turned out you became protectors of the men of the invasion.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about what your duty was.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, after about three months up around Birmingham, we moved down on the coast in Dorset near Dorchester.
[Calvin Boykin]: And they had several marshalling areas there.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we thought, well, we would be part of the invasion.
[Calvin Boykin]: But I would say that I was one of the youngest in my company.
[Calvin Boykin]: Most of them were up in their late 20s, early 30s, because they were mechanics and truck drivers, foreign boys.
[Calvin Boykin]: They knew machinery.
[Calvin Boykin]: They could do all these things.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I was just kind of a latecomer.
[Calvin Boykin]: But anyway, all of a sudden, they altered our plan.
[Calvin Boykin]: and we became service troops to the invasion force itself.
[Calvin Boykin]: And these, I'm telling you, I was 20 years old, and I felt like I was a senior to these kids.
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah, they were young kids, weren't they?
[Calvin Boykin]: Right, they were young, and they had the spirit.
[Tom Turbiville]: They had the morale.
[Tom Turbiville]: You talked about a young corporal in a speech that he made.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: I'll tell you, if I can remember it, but we had these little tent movies.
[Calvin Boykin]: He got up on the stage, and he did it more than once.
[Calvin Boykin]: He recited Billy Rose's poem,
[Calvin Boykin]: the unknown soldier.
[Calvin Boykin]: And he said the last verse that I am the unknown soldier and maybe I died in vain, but if my country, if I were alive and my country called, I would do it all over again.
[Calvin Boykin]: And boy, they cheered.
[Calvin Boykin]: And they had him do it again.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's amazing how those snapshots in your mind will stay there.
[Calvin Boykin]: Another thing.
[Calvin Boykin]: Yes, sir.
[Calvin Boykin]: They had music.
[Calvin Boykin]: And old Texas Jim Robinson would sing, I'd love to be in Texas for the roundup in the spring.
[Calvin Boykin]: That was the other side.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know of the 814th, there were several members that were from Texas.
[Calvin Boykin]: Not very many.
[Calvin Boykin]: A couple of officers.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: One or two in this.
[Calvin Boykin]: Indeed.
[Tom Turbiville]: Indeed.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go right now to some photographs that we want to show that these are pictures a lot from your book, which is, I guess, subtitled Gar Devet, which means
[Tom Turbiville]: Beware the beast.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talking about the tank destroyer.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go to some of the pictures now that we have.
[Tom Turbiville]: You can look at them right there on the monitor.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now that is a young Calvin Boykin and also the patch of your unit.
[Tom Turbiville]: So when was that picture taken?
[Calvin Boykin]: That was taken while I was at North Camp Hood.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And the shoulder patch is the tank destroyer.
[Calvin Boykin]: Of the 7th Army?
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah, the tank, the Tiger,
[Calvin Boykin]: or the Panther crushing a tank in his jaw.
[Calvin Boykin]: Now, the 7th Armored, we were attached to them after we landed in Normandy.
[Calvin Boykin]: And all the way through.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I belonged to their association.
[Calvin Boykin]: Of course, last week I was in Holland with them.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right, we're going to talk about that.
[Tom Turbiville]: You just got back from a trip.
[Tom Turbiville]: Where was this picture taken?
[Calvin Boykin]: That, by the way, was taken in Edinburgh, Scotland.
[Calvin Boykin]: And that was when I had never received a furlough in all my
[Calvin Boykin]: service right but there we were across the Rhine and all of a sudden they came and wanted to know if i wanted to go to England which i did well i got up to Birmingham my girlfriend
had married so i moved on up to Edinburgh and that's it sir walter scott monument right at the base yeah all right let's move on to the next uh photograph you are uh
[Tom Turbiville]: there on the on the left on your uh sort of kneeled over with my mesquite as usual you know right right right and that was in uh Birmingham or in packington park that was early right
right as you were uh preparing to uh to move across the English Channel and that's uh members of your your company there that here's a here's another picture this is uh obviously during the winter yes at uh near a spa belt
[Calvin Boykin]: And it was right after the worst part of the buzz.
[Calvin Boykin]: This was in January of 45.
[Calvin Boykin]: And when I sent that picture home, they didn't realize my hand was wrapped here.
[Calvin Boykin]: I spent four days in the field hospital, non-combat wounds,
[Calvin Boykin]: I didn't get any purple heart, but it was an infection that developed, and an old Belgian farmer told me, you better get to the doctor.
[Tom Turbiville]: I see.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I did, and they kept me there and drained that out
[Calvin Boykin]: every four hours or so.
[Calvin Boykin]: Wow.
[Calvin Boykin]: For a long time.
[Calvin Boykin]: It was painful.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's move on.
[Tom Turbiville]: I think we've got... This is a book that... The cover of a book.
[Tom Turbiville]: As you can see, the title of World War II, AFV's Armored Fighting Vehicles.
[Tom Turbiville]: And the reason that we're showing this is that the cover photo, as you would find out later on,
[Tom Turbiville]: is your tank.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're in that photo.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's somewhat hard to see, but you say that you're the person up in the top of the turret with the helmet sort of sticking up over the gun barrel there.
[Tom Turbiville]: And that's you.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I guess you didn't even know that this picture was taken, much less it was going to be used for the cover of this book.
[Calvin Boykin]: No, I never...
[Calvin Boykin]: brother-in-law, Donald DePasco of Dickinson, he noticed it.
[Calvin Boykin]: He found this and told me, take a look.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I said, my gosh, that's our crew.
[Calvin Boykin]: I recognized every one of them.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: But that's a replacement armored car.
[Calvin Boykin]: Uh-huh.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I was a sergeant.
[Calvin Boykin]: I made a sergeant after we lost the armored car and our crew scattered.
[Calvin Boykin]: And so I took over.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: So we were off on a mission somewhere.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you show up on the cover of a book.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's pretty fascinating.
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's amazing.
[Tom Turbiville]: And this is the cover of your book, A History of the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion, 1942 to 1945.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you wrote that book.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's a great cover with that emblem of the, is that's a panther?
[Tom Turbiville]: Is that right?
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Panther chewing up a tank.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And well, I've been collecting documents because I'd go to Washington for work, some work assignments.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I'd go over to Suitland, Maryland for the Federal Records Center and see what all they had.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then I had copies made of everything from the 814th.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then I got some from the 7th Armored as well.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I used those in the book, plus
[Calvin Boykin]: What I'd gotten from individual members, former members of the 814th, they sent me pictures, biographical sketches, information about training and some action, quite a bit of action, and I used almost everything they sent.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it was a pretty good sample.
[Calvin Boykin]: Now, these were Midwestern boys.
[Calvin Boykin]: Most of them were.
[Calvin Boykin]: It's a fascinating book.
[Calvin Boykin]: They were no-nonsense boys.
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah, absolutely.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want to, by the way, tell folks now that we're not going to tell all of Sergeant Boykin's story in this episode of Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: As a matter of fact, we'll be continuing next week.
[Tom Turbiville]: So we're going to hear the whole story because it is indeed fascinating.
[Tom Turbiville]: But for the rest of the time that we have here, I want you to talk about
[Tom Turbiville]: You're landing at Utah Beach.
[Tom Turbiville]: It was August the 8th of 1944, some two months after D-Day.
[Tom Turbiville]: And talk about what you found.
[Tom Turbiville]: You had come over from Weymouth across the English Channel.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I know in your book, you talked about the entire experiences from the beaches to the Baltic.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about landing at Utah Beach and sort of your initial days in France.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, we came across on the LST.
[Calvin Boykin]: In fact, we loaded up and we were sitting there waiting.
[Calvin Boykin]: So we had the captain lower the thing down so we could go swimming.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we swam around the channel and came back on there.
[Calvin Boykin]: But we landed.
[Calvin Boykin]: came in at night, and you could see the hulls of some ships either had been sunk through a fire or maybe purposely to stem the tides and so on.
[Calvin Boykin]: But anyway, you could see that.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then we pulled, then we rested, and when the tide went out, well, then we lowered the ramp and just drove off.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it was August the 8th and that's the record show that.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I remember it because that was my grandmother, my maternal grandmother's birthday.
[Calvin Boykin]: I see, I see.
[Tom Turbiville]: And so you moved into Utah Beach and you thought that there might be a little bit of time to sort of get settled and sort of learn what was going on.
[Tom Turbiville]: But no, you all moved out that morning, right?
[Calvin Boykin]: That's right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And it was completely different.
[Calvin Boykin]: All we knew that, you know, the hedgerows and there had been a big cobra operation and a breakthrough.
[Calvin Boykin]: tanks were on the move, but I expected to be a broad front here with infantry and tanks and so on there and do each fire.
[Calvin Boykin]: With air support and everything and all that.
[Calvin Boykin]: But no, we've single filed and we left that next morning and I told the lieutenant, I said, hell, that's where the Germans are.
[Calvin Boykin]: He said, that's right.
[Calvin Boykin]: But we were with Patton's Third Army, and you know the story of how fast they barreled through France.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And one thing I have not mentioned is the fact I was interviewed by the Army Hour at the Seine River Crossing.
[Tom Turbiville]: I see.
[Calvin Boykin]: And my lieutenant and I, and I like to say, well, we're the only ones that could read, you know, because they gave us the script to read.
[Calvin Boykin]: They wouldn't let us off the cup say anything, as far as I could tell.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we did a dry run.
[Calvin Boykin]: Of course, you could hear the mortars coming and the machine guns and so on.
[Calvin Boykin]: But all it was was how many miles a day we'd driven, how much gas we'd used, which we had no idea, and so on.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then the interviewer shook our hands like they will be the first to cross the same.
[Calvin Boykin]: And this will be broadcast at home Sunday night.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, we didn't cross.
[Calvin Boykin]: We went farther south.
[Calvin Boykin]: We were not the first to cross.
[Calvin Boykin]: And I don't think it was ever aired back home, thank goodness.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, that's showbiz, right?
[Calvin Boykin]: Yeah, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were attached to the 7th Armored Division, like you said.
[Tom Turbiville]: But your particular job, your particular duty was as recon.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that, what was involved with that, because I guess as danger goes, that was one of the more dangerous elements of this mission.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, usually you'd take the recon and they would lead the column.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: until we made contact.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we sent something going on.
[Calvin Boykin]: Now, in one case, we had one of those in the arms, or maybe he was a postman, anyway, had a cap and a uniform riding a bicycle.
[Calvin Boykin]: We said, you ride up here about 100 yards or 200 yards, and then signal, if you see anything or don't, tell us whether to come or not.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we'd do that.
[Calvin Boykin]: And all of a sudden, he dropped down.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then here came the German column.
[Calvin Boykin]: Here I was in front.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, I fired as quickly as I could and knocked out the lead vehicle.
[Calvin Boykin]: But it seemed like it was slow motion, you know, trying to get things up, see the sight, and bam.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then my sergeant in the seat next to me, he couldn't wait.
[Calvin Boykin]: He reached over and hit the machine gun pedal.
[Calvin Boykin]: And there was an infantry.
[Calvin Boykin]: a load of infantry right behind that one, and it mowed into the infantry, and, of course, they scattered.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then the 17th Tank Battalion behind us, they said, well, move over, we're coming through.
[Calvin Boykin]: And so they came through, and darn, lo and behold, the first one got hit.
[Calvin Boykin]: Hit right up and started...
[Calvin Boykin]: blazing away.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, those Germans on that infantry truck had unhooked that anti-tank gun and just sat there and leveled it off and knocked out that light tank.
[Calvin Boykin]: Well, we rescued two of the crew.
[Calvin Boykin]: I don't know what happened to the other two.
[Calvin Boykin]: But that was just an example.
[Tom Turbiville]: One of your duties was to sort of clean up villages that had been bypassed, I guess, in the initial assault on Normandy.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: In that process, we were on the flanks of the main columns, and we would maybe sound the alarm in case something happened there.
[Calvin Boykin]: But we did roll into one village, and our rubber tires and so on, and the Germans were off their guns, a couple of them in the orchard talking to this French lady.
[Calvin Boykin]: They saw us, and they threw up our hands.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we had taken, I think, the first prisoners,
[Calvin Boykin]: our battalion took is that right and we sent them back to the room so by this time the germans were they were ready for this war to be over they were many of them were that's right there were some they were diehards i'll tell you they were they they were with it to the bitter end but most of them said let's let's get on let's do something else right right right yeah
[Tom Turbiville]: uh the next show we're going to talk about uh more about your trek through Belgium and Holland and uh and into Germany uh we've got about uh a minute and a half left on this one uh you're married to Rosemary as a matter of fact uh you uh July the first I believe you had been married uh 61 years and uh just talk very quickly about your family I know you have four children right well we have four children
[Calvin Boykin]: And seven grandchildren.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right, and some great-grandchildren.
[Calvin Boykin]: And four great-grandchildren.
[Calvin Boykin]: Wow.
[Calvin Boykin]: And so we've covered the waterfront.
[Calvin Boykin]: Indeed.
[Calvin Boykin]: And if you look at some of these, one of these books is what if, I say, what if that anti-tank gun had been just a hair more?
[Calvin Boykin]: None of this would exist.
[Calvin Boykin]: Oh, exactly.
[Calvin Boykin]: Just what if.
[Calvin Boykin]: Exactly.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we think about those things.
[Tom Turbiville]: You think about the generations that would not have been.
[Tom Turbiville]: A whole generation.
[Tom Turbiville]: Had things had gone somewhat differently.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Of course, I know that Rosemary has published herself a history of the Brazos Valley Italians.
[Calvin Boykin]: That's right.
[Tom Turbiville]: From her heritage.
[Calvin Boykin]: And she worked hard getting that historical, state historical marker down there at Steel Store.
[Calvin Boykin]: Right.
[Calvin Boykin]: And then she's written her family history from Sicily to Texas.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, history is in your family's blood because I know one of your daughters, Ann, works for the City of College Station, and she's been the founder of the Project Hold that is so meaningful to the City of College Station.
[Calvin Boykin]: And she loves that history and she remembers.
[Calvin Boykin]: She remembers things I didn't know happened.
[Calvin Boykin]: But it's just been a great time.
[Calvin Boykin]: It really has.
[Calvin Boykin]: And we've enjoyed it.
[Tom Turbiville]: Thank you.
[Tom Turbiville]: And we're going to be back next week and talk for more.
[Tom Turbiville]: Cal Boykin's story is one of the many that can't be properly told in just 30 minutes.
[Tom Turbiville]: So we will continue hearing the proud story of the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion next week, as well as his fascinating post-military career.
[Tom Turbiville]: We salute Cal Boykin for his service as we salute all veterans.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Join Cal Boykin and me next week on Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: Oh, okay, okay, okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, he usually builds something in because he knows I go long sometimes, so.
[Tom Turbiville]: All right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, tell him to give you a one minute, because of all the ones, yeah, of all the ones that I get, that's the most important, because that's the one where I can judge pretty much.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay, we want to do this promo?
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay, we'll do this promo.
[Tom Turbiville]: We're just gonna do a promo for that show, and you don't need to do anything but just look into that camera.
[Tom Turbiville]: Are they ready?
Ready.
Oh, okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: The one, not 100, 800.
[Tom Turbiville]: Here we go.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's do it again.
[Tom Turbiville]: The 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion was attached to Patton's army during the Allies' final push through Europe at the end of World War II.
[Tom Turbiville]: And College Station's Cal Boykin was a gunner riding high on an M8 armored car.
[Tom Turbiville]: A historian, an author, a soldier.
[Tom Turbiville]: Meet Cal Boykin Jr.
[Tom Turbiville]: of College Station on Veterans of the Valley, Friday at 8.30, Saturday and Sunday at 6.30 on KAMU-TV.
[Calvin Boykin]: Okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: I can go a little slower, right?
[Tom Turbiville]: Was that a little short?
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay, I'll go the same then.
[Tom Turbiville]: All right, here we go.
[Tom Turbiville]: The 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion was attached to Patton's army during the Allies' final push through Europe at the end of World War II.
[Tom Turbiville]: And College Station's Cal Boykin was a gunner riding high on an M8 armored car, a historian, an author, a soldier.
[Tom Turbiville]: Meet Cal Boykin Jr.
[Tom Turbiville]: of College Station on Veterans of the Valley, Friday at 8.30, Saturday and Sunday at 6.30 on KAMU-TV.
[Silence.]